OK in order to actually get a an equation for the charging current as a function of time now we're going
to have to do is use a bit of calculus.
So I want to start with the expression I had for the current before I took any of those limits the short
time and the long time limit.
And again this is just the result of Kirchoff's voltage law.
So from this equation here I have a current that relates is directly related to the charge and I know
both of these change.
Everything else is a constant here.
BMF is a constant capacitance is a constant.
The resistance is a constant but I know that I and Q They are functions of time.
So one thing I'm going to do is let's start by substituting in the definition of the current the current
by definition is the rate of change of the charge with respect to time.
OK.
And now all I'm going to do here is I'm just going to just factor out the terms what I want to get is
kind of a term would charge by itself so I'm going to factor out this one over R C that's the term in
front of the charge.
Q Let's open up the bracket and what you're left with now is Q And the next term.
You've got to be a little bit careful here when you write this out.
Well you should get minus the capacitance multiplied by the ESF of the battery and you see if you multiply
that through the capacitances are going to cancel out for the second terms.
This negative sign will take care of that one and you'll be left with this term here.
All right.
Now in order to get an equation what we're going to have to do at some point is integrate but before
integrating I got to put all the terms with the charge on one side and all the terms with the time on
the other side.
OK so if I put all the terms of the charge on one side it looks something like this says dequeue divided
by.
Now the term in the bracket over here can bring that in the denominator on the other side.
So this is simply Q minus the capacitance multiplied by the MF.
Now this here must be equal to minus 1 over R C and multiplied by the.
OK so now what we're going to do here is I'm just going to do a change of variable because at the end
I want my final answer to be q and T so I can have those integration variables.
I'm just going to call these prime values here.
Just a simple change a variable and now what you're going to do now is we're going to integrate both
sides.
I'm going to integrate the charges and the charges we know they initially were at zero.
So they go from zero to some final value.
Q And the time I integrate this side from 0 all the way to some final time t.
This is why I require the change variable here.
OK so to integrate this side you may have to remember if you don't remember.
OK.
It's the natural log it's the natural log of Q Prime minus C.
And don't forget we're going to have to substitute our limits here.
Q And 0.
The other side is a lot easier.
It's simply minus T
minus T prime rather sore divided by R C and again the integration limits here are simply T and 0.
All right so now what you have to do is simply substitute.
OK.
After you substitute Let's go ahead and do that over on this side.
So if you substitute Q In Here.
That's easy.
It looks exactly the same.
And don't forget you're going to be taking the difference between these integration limits.
When you substitute the zero here what I'm going to do is I'm just going to write it I'm going to use
properties of the logarithm function remember taking the difference between two logarithms is the same
thing as dividing the argument here.
So actually you can write this term as that minus C and divided by minus C write this is the term with
zero substituted in here and rather than writing natural law of some term minus natural law or the other
term I use the fact that natural law of a mine is be natural log of B is equal to natural law of a Overby
right.
That's one of the properties of the natural log function.
All right the right hand side now simply becomes minus T over R C.
All right.
I'm almost done now.
Really what I want to do is I want to get an equation of q as a function of time.
So I have to get rid of this natural log in the way you do that is you take an exponential on both sides.
So if you take an exponential on both sides this term here is simply going to become Q minus C divided
by minus C Well let's just switch the order here and this here becomes exponential of minus T divided
by R C.
All right.
And now the last bit.
All you have to do is kind of isolate we'll do that over here in Kunaal actually explicitly say q is
now is a function of time as you can see and this term here simply becomes.
Do a little bit of math you may have to add an extra step here if you don't see it quite as quickly
as I do.
But it looks like this one minus exponential minus T divided by R C
and here's the final expression I have.
And remember this term here in the front there's a term in front that's what we had found in the previous
case.
This here is really what the final charge was.
It was our final charge in the long time limit was equal to the capacitance multiplied by the IMF.
And now we have this other bracket here and this other function of time 1 minus exponential of this
decaying function here.
So let's have a closer look at the mathematics involved in terms of this equation and use it to calculate
what the current is.
Now as a function of time.